What's up, my friend? You already know this is the Life in
English podcast. I am Tony Kaizen, your communication
sensei, here to drop some knowledge on you. Today, I'm going
to share something with you that will completely change the
nature of your interactions with people. I'm going to share
the simple habit that helped me learn a foreign language
without taking the course or traveling to a foreign country.
And this habit is the reason I'm able to make conversation
with pretty much anyone I meet. And speaking of
conversations, I'm currently writing a book that will teach
you how to have better conversations in English or any
language so be on the lookout for that in the future. For
inspiration, I was thumbing through the book How to Win
Friends and Influence People by Dale Carnegie, and I came
across an interesting chapter called Do This and You'll Be
Welcome Anywhere. And that's exactly what I'm going to share
with you today. There are few things in this life that I can
guarantee you, but I'm absolutely certain that understanding
and applying this concept will change your life as long as
you do it consistently. So let's not waste any more time.
I'm gonna read you a few passages and summarize the ideas to
make sure you understand the most important parts. Let's do
it. Passage number one. "Why read this book to find out how
to win friends?
Why not study the technique of the greatest winner of
friends the world has ever known? Who is he? You may meet
him tomorrow coming down the street. When you get within ten
feet of him, he will begin to wag his tail. If you stop and
pat him, he will almost jump out of his skin to show you how
much he likes you. And you know that behind this show of
affection on his part, there are no ulterior motives. He
doesn't want to sell you any real estate and he doesn't want
to marry you. Did you ever stop to think that a dog is the
only animal that doesn't have to work for a living? A hen
has to lay eggs. A cow has to give milk, and a canary has to
sing. But a dog makes his living by giving you nothing but
love. When I was five years old, my father bought a
yellow-haired pup for $0.50.
He was the light and joy of my childhood. Every afternoon,
about 4:30, he would sit in the front yard with his
beautiful eyes, staring steadfastly at the path. And as soon
as he heard my voice or saw me swinging my dinner pail
through the buck brush, he was off like a shot, racing
breathlessly up the hill to greet me with leaps of joy and
barks of sheer ecstasy. Tippy was my constant companion for
five years. Then one tragic night -- I shall never forget --
he was killed within ten feet of my head. Killed by
lightning. Tippy's death was the tragedy of my boyhood.
You never read a book on psychology, Tippy. You didn't need
to. You knew by some divine instinct that you can make more
friends in two months by becoming genuinely interested in
other people than you can in two years by trying to get
other people interested in you. Let me repeat that. You can
make more friends in two months by becoming interested in
other people than you can in two years by trying to get
other people interested in you. Yet I know, and you know,
people who blunder through life trying to wigwag other
people into becoming interested in them. Of course, it
doesn't work. People are not interested in you. They are not
interested in me. They are interested in themselves.
Morning, noon, and after dinner. The New York telephone
company made a detailed study of telephone conversations to
find out which word is the most frequently used. And you've
guessed it. It is the personal pronoun "I". I.
I. It was used 3,900 times in 500 telephone conversations.
I. I.
I. I. When you see a group photograph that you are in, whose
picture do you look for first? If we merely try to impress
people and get people interested in us, we will never have
many true, sincere friends. Friends. Real friends are not
made that way. Napoleon tried it and in his last meeting
with Josephine, he said, 'Josephine, I've been as fortunate
as any man ever was on this earth and yet at this hour, you
are the only person in the world on whom I can rely.' And
historians doubt whether he could rely even on her. Alfred
Adler, the famous Viennese psychologist, wrote a book
entitled What Life Should Mean to You. In that book, he says
it is the individual who is not interested in his fellow
men, who has the greatest difficulties in life and provides
the greatest injury to others. It is from among such
individuals that all human failures spring. You may read
scores of erudite tomes on psychology without coming across
a statement more significant for you in me. Adler's
statement is so rich with meaning that I'm going to repeat
it in italics. It is the individual who is not interested in
his fellow men, who has the greatest difficulties in life
and provides the greatest injury to others. It's from among
such individuals that all human failures spring."
Now, when I read this passage, the message I take away from
it is that trying to get people interested in you is a waste
of time. It makes you seem selfish and boring.
A lot of people spend their energy trying to impress others,
show themselves in a particular light and get people's
attention. But if you really want to be someone that people
enjoy being around, then you've got to stop thinking so much
about yourself and take interest in other people. So, let's
move on to passage number two.
"George Dyke of North War in Pennsylvania, was forced to
retire from his service station business after 30 years when
a new highway was constructed over the site of his station.
It wasn't long before the idle days of retirement began to
bore him, so he started filling in his time trying to play
music and talk with many of the accomplished fiddlers. In
his humble and friendly way, he became generally interested
in learning the background and interests of every musician
he met. Although he was not a great fiddler himself, he made
many friends in this pursuit. He attended competitions and
soon became known to the country music fans in the eastern
part of the United States as 'Uncle George, the Fiddle
Scraper from Kinzua County'. When we heard Uncle George, he
was 72 and enjoying every minute of his life. By having a
sustained interest in other people, he created a new life
for himself at a time when most people consider their
productive years over." And this passage makes me think
about the experience of learning a foreign language as an
adult. A lot of people think it's impossible to learn new
skills once they leave traditional school. They think the
key to fluency in a foreign language is taking more classes,
buying more courses, and watching more YouTube videos. But
the key is actually just taking interest in other people,
just like the man in the story. He wasn't a great musician
in the beginning, and that didn't matter. He just decided to
immerse himself in the culture. He tried to learn from and
connect with every musician he met. Over time, this allowed
him to create a network of musicians, and he became
well-known all over the eastern United States. And that
scenario reminds me of the people who joined the Life in
English community - people who have chosen to learn English
as a foreign language just using the Internet. The people in
our community who make the most progress and have the most
fun are the people who simply choose to immerse themselves
in the language. They're always consuming content in
English, starting conversations, asking questions about the
language, and sharing things about their culture. They
understand that you join a community because you're
interested in meeting and supporting people who have the
same goals and interests as you. And by taking interest in
other members of the community, by making an effort to get
to know them, by constantly trying to learn and grow with
them, you end up creating an environment in which everyone
benefits, including you. You can't experience the same
growth when you're only thinking about yourself and what
other people can do for you. It's going to be really hard to
learn a language if you're not interested in other people.
Alright.
Let's move on to passage number three. "A show of interest,
as with every other principle of human relations must be
sincere. It must pay off not only for the person showing the
interest, but for the person receiving the attention. It is
a two-way street. Both parties benefit.
Martin Ginsburg, who took our course in Long Island, New
York, reported how the special interest a nurse took in him
profoundly affected his life. 'It was Thanksgiving Day and I
was ten years old.
I was in a welfare ward of a city hospital and was scheduled
to undergo major orthopedic surgery the next day. I knew
that I could only look forward to months of confinement,
convalescence, and pain. My father was dead. My mother and I
lived alone in a small apartment, and we were on welfare. My
mother was unable to visit me that day. As the day went on,
I became overwhelmed with the feeling of loneliness,
despair, and fear. I knew my mother was at home alone
worrying about me not having anyone to be with, not having
anyone to eat with, and not even having enough money to
afford a Thanksgiving dinner. The tears welled up in my eyes
and I stuck my head under the pillow and pulled the covers
over it. I cried silently, but oh so bitterly.
So much that my body wracked with pain. A young student
nurse heard my sobbing and came over to me. She took the
covers off my face and started wiping my tears. She told me
how lonely she was having to work that day and not being
able to be with her family. She asked me whether I would
have dinner with her. She brought two trays of food - sliced
turkey, mashed potatoes, cranberry sauce, and ice cream for
dessert. She talked to me and tried to calm my fears. Even
though she was scheduled to go off duty at 4 p.m., she
stayed on her own time until almost 11 p.m.. She played
games with me, talked to me, and stayed with me until I
finally fell asleep. Many Thanksgivings have come and gone
since I was ten. But one never passes without me remembering
that particular one and my feelings of frustration, fear,
loneliness, and the warmth and tenderness of the stranger
that somehow made it all bearable.' If you want others to
like you, if you want to develop real relationships, if you
want to help others at the same time as you help yourself,
keep this principle in mind. Become genuinely interested in
other people. Do this and you'll be welcome anywhere."
Now, over the years, I've come to realize that the majority
of people in this world don't get much love, attention,
respect, or admiration. Most people don't ever get listened
to.
And when you choose to be the one that takes interest in
another person and shows them some love, there's no telling
what kind of effect that's going to have on them long term.
There have been so many cases when someone chose to share
very personal information with me. Things have never told
their families or best friends just because I was the first
person who truly took the time to listen to what they had to
say. Because instead of judging them, I was seeking to
understand them better. People will tell you all kinds of
things once they know you're truly listening. I remember
comments that I received years ago just because I almost
never receive compliments growing up. So when somebody
actually takes the time to not only notice something about
me, but then tell me what they noticed, I end up thinking
about it for a long time. Like them, I can't believe someone
was paying so much attention to me and cared enough to let
me know about it. Now, this might sound counterintuitive to
you, but it's an idea that I'd like you to experiment with
in the future. If you want to receive something, try giving
some of it first. If you want more love from people,
show more love to people. If you want more respect from
people, show more respect to people. If you want
people to be more interested in you, show more interest in
people. Obviously these are general statements. I'm not
saying you should show love, respect, and interest to people
who clearly don't like you or want to be around you. Do not
degrade yourself by chasing people. If you're chasing
something, that means it's actively trying to get away from
you. So it's probably best to just let it go, you feel me?
What I'm saying is, be the person who extends their hand
first, literally and figuratively speaking. Greet the world
with the energy you would like to receive.
Alright, there you have it, my friend. The key to better
interactions, deeper relationships, and a stronger network
is becoming genuinely interested in other people. In a world
where everyone is only interested in themselves, only
interested in what they can get from other people, only
interested in talking, only interested in how much money,
attention, and validation they can get for themselves, I'm
asking you to walk in the other direction. I'm asking you to
take interest in other people. I'm asking you to step
outside of yourself and into someone else's shoes. I'm
asking you to be curious, to think deeper, to ask better
questions, and to develop empathy for the people you meet.
If you can do this, you'll learn more about this world and
the people in it than you ever imagined possible. People
will enjoy speaking to you so much more. You will conquer
your fear of speaking to strangers. You'll be able to talk
to anyone anytime, anywhere.